---
layout: post
title: "Day 15 — Beginning the In-Person Experience"
date: 2026-06-15
permalink: /day15.html
tags: ["research", "data-science", "ai", "sairi"]

what_i_learned: |
  Today marked the beginning of the in-person portion of the SAIRI program. It
  was exciting to finally meet my research group members and many of the other
  participants face-to-face after working together virtually. I also had the
  opportunity to meet Elijah, Dr. Mack, Michael, and several other members of
  the program in person for the first time.

  The day began with a reintroduction to the program, including expectations for
  participants, mentors, faculty members, and professional conduct throughout
  the remainder of the summer.

  We then participated in a data analytics workshop where we worked with Pandas,
  NumPy, and Matplotlib. The session introduced important techniques for data
  manipulation, analysis, and visualization. These are skills I have been
  wanting to develop for some time, so I was excited to gain more hands-on
  experience with these tools.

  Later, we attended a workshop on AI bias and dataset bias. Through discussions
  and activities, we explored how bias can enter datasets and machine learning
  systems, as well as the impact this can have on the outputs of large language
  models and other AI applications.

  We finished the day in our research group, where we discussed our goals and
  planned activities for the week ahead as we begin the next phase of the
  project.

blockers: |
  No major blockers today. Most of the day focused on orientation, workshops,
  and planning for the upcoming week.

reflection: |
  Today felt like an exciting milestone in the program. Meeting everyone in
  person made the experience feel much more real, and the workshops provided
  valuable skills that will be useful both for this project and future work in
  data science and machine learning. I'm looking forward to applying these tools
  as we move into model training and deeper analysis in the coming weeks.
---
